MVC

    Controller
    /        \
  View      Model

  - Controller handles the interaction the user has within your application
    - Controller takes data that is queried from the dataset and formatted for parsing by the model and provides the validation, 'business logic' and interaction of the application that the user deals with.
  - Views handle aesthetics
    - The view takes this abstracted controller logic and formats the logic into your presentation
      like html, css, javascript, xml and visual assets.
  - Model interacts directly with the database and hands data to the controller
    - The model queries the database / dataset (in section we used a data.xml file as our dataset)
      formats that data, usually using a factory to create objects (in section we created assoc. arrays)
      and then passes that to the controller. Models also handle all other database related logic like
      all CRUD related operations.

  - When building your own MVC it's important to remember that php files with sensitive information such as files that store username and password or hold username password, card info etc. should be placed outside of the document root i.e. public_html and then restrict restrict read write access from the
  Client. For example, your directory structure should look like this.
    public_html/
    php_logic/


PHP
  - being that PHP is an interpreted language when, for instance a form is submitted,
    the server 'interprets' the language line by line and then replies to the request, whether

  - $_GET of $_POST with outputted information. The server does not return php it returns the outputted
    text, imgs, html etc.

  - $_SESSION is used to keep track of state in your application using cookies.

    A metaphor to this would be a concert. Where when a user gives the door guy his ticket (user and pass)
    and if its correct the user can enter and stay in so long as the user get their hand stamped. That
    stamp could be considered the cookie. The user can come and go as they please so long as they show the door guy their hand stamp
    which in web development means a big randomly generated number which is the cookie id.

  - to keep track of cookies PHP stores each unique $_SESSION in their own file in tmp/. Each new session id / user
    get their own file.

  - serialization is the process of taking key value pairs set within your web application and storing them on the user's
    disk for future

  - Session is Server Side

  - Cookie is Client Side

  - Security Issue: because cookie id are passed between client and server someone on the same network as you could find
    that cookie id and login as you under you current session. It's best to use SSL to encrypt your Cookie ID.

  - do not store sensitive information in the users Cookies as it opens a ton of security risks one of which is phishing scams
    where a hacker can send you a phishing email that redirects you to a form and form inputs within that form could contain a javascript that stores the users cookies via document.cookies and sends it to the hacker

  - you can store sensitive information in the Session as it's most likely safe due to it being stored on the server. Absolutely no sensitive information should be stored in a cookie as it is accessible client side.


APACHE
  - Document Root is where the contents of the main web server go i.e. http://blah.com/ is the document root

  - Public HTML is the folder where web contents are stored for different users. for instance,
    if you're application had 1,000 users each one of those users would have a public_html folder
    so 1,000 public_html folders would live on your server and could be visited at http://blah.com/~user

  - Every time a web page is finished loading the connection between the server and the browser is closed.

  - for security purposes it's good to remove your apache and php versions from your request headers to prevent malicious attacks for those specific bugs. You can change these settings in php.ini and httpd.conf
